---
title: "The Hellfire Club"
template: blog-post
visibility: visible
published_at: '01-05-2022 09:46'
---

On September 8, 1979, Dr. Martin Brenner prepared for work at Hawkins National Laboratory. At the lab, he entered the lab's Rainbow Room, where a number of children were playing. He approached Ten, who was playing with a Magic 8 Ball, and asked if Ten was ready for more lessons. Ten shook the ball and showed Brenner "All signs point to yes." In the hallway, they passed a woman named Dr. Ellis along with another experiment named Six. Brenner and Ten began their experiments. Brenner had Ten use his abilities to see what Brenner was drawing on his pad. Brenner then asked if they could do something more challenging by seeing what Dr. Ellis and Six were doing in the other room. Ten saw Dr. Ellis and Six doing an experiment, but Ten began to hyperventilate, and said that something was wrong, Ten became agitated and said that Six and Ellis were screaming. The lab's alarm went off . Brenner used the intercom to ask what was happening. Ten told him that Six and Dr. Ellis were dead. Brenner slowly headed to the door to Ten's room as he heard screams and impacts outside the door. The door burst off its hinges and hit Brenner, knocking him unconscious. When he awoke, he was horrified to find Ten dead. As Brenner limped outside, he saw experiments, security guards, and fellow doctors dead and bloodied. In the Rainbow Room, he found about a dozen dead children. One child was standing near the broken mirror, breathing heavily. Brenner angrily asked "What have you done?". The child turned slowly to face Brenner. It was young Eleven, whose eyes, nose, and ears dripping with blood. Her hospital gown was also smeared with blood.